**14.8 Lagrange multipliers**
Very interesting, quite geometric. Looking carefully at drawing will help.
Motiation: Minimise $f(x,y) = x^2+y^2$ subject to constraint $x+y=5$. 
	Step 1: In constraint, solve for one of the variables $y=5-x$
	Step 2: Substitute into function to be maximised/minimised: $x^2+y^2=x^2+(5-x)^2$
	Step 3: Take derivatie, find where it equals zero, check second derivative:
	$x^2+(5-x)^2 = x^2+x^2-10x+25 = 2x^2-10x+25$
	$f'(x) = 4x-10$ 
Problem:
(a) Gotta solve for one of the variables
(b) That can be difficult sometimes

***LAGRANGE WAY:***
Minimise $f(x,y) = x^2+y^2$ subject to constraint $x+y=5$. 
Lets draw input space and the constraint:
Then add the function to be minimized by adding the various level curves of $x^2+y^2$ 
	Observation 1: Seems clear that for level set $f(x,y) = k$ , small values of *k* is unable to "reach" constraint equation.
	Observation 2: For larger *k*, we hit constraint twice.
-> Goal -> Minimise $f(x,y)$ subject to the constraint, which means "find the inputs that generate the smallest output and also satisfy the constraint

Q: Smallest value of *k* that still touches constraint?
Claim: Minimium happens at point of tangency

Claim:: If you can find point in input space where tangent to level curve matches tangent to constraint, then you have found optimum!

Why? Bcus constraint and level curve exactly touch when you can't reduce (or increase) function $f(x,y)$ and still satisfy constraint.

Asusme have constraint $y=x^2+2$ and we are attempting to maximise  $f(x,y) = -(x^2+y^2)$ . By adding constraint, we see that rather than $(0,0)$, the maximum now occurs at $(2,0)$ and the maximal value $-4$ 

Extreme values occurs where normal to the constraint curve points in the direction as the normal to the level set 

Proof:
Make $g(x,y,z)$ such that constraint curve is a level curve s.t:
$g(x,y,z) = k$ is the constraint curve.
Step 2: Suppose $f(x,y,z)$ has extreme point at P. Hence, $f$ has max or min as you move along level set. 
Step 3: Let $C: r(t)=(x(t),y(t),z(t))$ be curve on k level set that passes through the point $P(x_0,y_0,z_0)$
Step 4: We see that $dr/dt = dr/dx*dx/dt + ..$ 

Suppose we want to find the extreme points of a function $f(x,y,z)$ subject to constraint $g(x,y,z)=k$ 

Then at extreme point, we must have that $\nabla f = \lambda \nabla g$ .

Getting equations easy. 

Q: find extreme values of $f(x,y) = -x^2-y^2$ given $g(x,y)=y-x^2=2$
 $\nabla f = \lambda \nabla g$ , so we must have 
  $\nabla g=<-2x,1>$ ,  $\nabla f = <-2x,-2y>$
  Equations:
1) $-2x = (-2x)*\lambda$ 
2) $-2y = \lambda$ 
3) $y-x^2 = 2$ 
Solving, if $\lambda = 1$, $y = -1/2$ and we are dead as (3) is always wrong
So essentially $x=0$, and $y=2$, so $\lambda = -4$ 
Always looking at the input space
-> Output space doesn't provide information, other than whether is a min or max

Second derivative test is kinda useless, cuz this is not a general global minimum, but rather a min/max along a line




